# Endoscopy-video-analysis
Masters project for endoscopic video analysis 

Medical Science has benefited a lot with the intervention of technology into it, and ”Sample Space Reduction and Anomaly Detection in Endoscopic Video Analysis” is a fusion of Technology, Computing Science, and Gastric Science. This work deals in expediting the time of endoscopic video analysis by introducing computing logic and computers, in this image processing techniques have been applied to reduce the sample space and then detecting an anomaly in the form of redness and blood detection. 
# Abstract of the [Thesis](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/348306759_Sample_Space_Reduction_and_Anomaly_Detection_in_Endoscopic_Video_Analysis) 

Endoscopy is an old technique used in several kinds of imaging diagnosis colonoscopy, upper gastrointestinal endoscopy, enteroscopy, bronchoscopy, cystoscopy, laparoscopy, wireless capsule endoscopy, and some minimally invasive surgeries (i.e., video endoscopic neurosurgery). In all the investigation techniques mentioned a video is generated and is analyzed by assistants and experts in a process to diagnose some disease. Endoscopy of the complete gastric region is the focus of the study in this thesis. The main objective is to reduce the diagnosis time after obtaining the endoscopic video from the endoscope, as a lot of time gets wasted in analyzing the video again and again by different experts or professionals.

During the initial phase of the work it has been identified that in the majority of cases the region of interest, for which the investigation is being performed, is only 2% to 5% of the complete video, but to find those regions of interest the video has to be reviewed several time, consequently which increases the diagnosis time. It was also found that due to slow motion or halted video cameras, reviewers wait for a lot of time to see the whole region and detect any anomaly.

To address the above-stated problems as the system is presented in this dissertation named ”Sample Space Reduction and Anomaly Detection in Endoscopic Video Analysis”. This system focuses on reducing the time required to analyze the gastric region by introducing image processing techniques. The system first extracts the frames from the video, then each frame is subjected to similarity comparison, this the duplicate frames are truncated apart from this the frames which are similar to one base frame that focuses over a particular region are also truncated, the resultant frames are those frame which depicts the complete gastric region without missing any gastric tract. The similarity of the frames is measured by calculating the Bhattacharyya Distance among the histogram of the frames. When the reduced sample space is obtained then the dissertation presents an anomaly detection of redness and presence of blood in the region under observation. In this, every frame of the reduced sample space first filters the regions that contain pixels falling within a range of RGB HIGH and RGB LOW values. Then based upon the presence of percentage of the red pixel the frames are selected for the review of the expert. The dissertation provides the model used to pictorially depict the approach. Apart from this procedure is also shown how different threshold values are obtained to get the desired results. Complete algorithms of Samples Space Reduction and Anomaly Detection are given in the dissertation along with their logs and results.

